---
layout: story
author: John Purple
permalink: /stories/Who-Is-John-Purple
---

Greetings everyone and welcome to my website! <br/>

My name is John Purple, I am a budding film photographer, and this site gives me the opportunity to take you along on my journey. We will discuss cameras, film, lenses, and even topics on the more technical side of photography. <br/>

However, since this is the first post on the site, I thought it would be a good idea to do a bit of an introduction so that you get to know me a teeny bit better. So, here are some questions that I think are a good jumping off point. <br/>

<hr class = "story-break">

Q. How did you get into photography? <br/>
A. I lost my job at the end of 2019 and entered a bit of a depression going into 2020. I did basically nothing except sleep, eat really really unhealthy food and watch TV all day, and I'm not sure how I would have done if I didn't have the love and support of my wife. By the time I tried to find a new job, the world got smacked in the face with COVID-19 which basically made it all but impossible to do so. Now I had a lot of time on my hand and knew that I didn't want to spend it the same way I had been spending it as it was having a negative effect on both my physical and mental health. So, I decided to start making videos to post on YouTube which I thought would give me something to do, and if I was good at it, would also net me some passive income. I found a good deal on a Sony NEX-FS100 which is a rather decent Full HD camera, but it had no lens, which was probably why the price was so low. I started looking into lenses for the FS100, and it was while I was doing research that I learned that people use vintage film camera lenses with the appropriate adapters on their video cameras because of the way the character that these lenses give the videos. One thing led to another and I started looking at 35mm film cameras as it is a bit difficult to read about lenses without finding out about the cameras that they were originally designed for. A couple hours later, armed with an elementary education on film in general, I was intrigued and decided to give it a try, and here we are today.  <br/>

Q. What was your first camera and what is your current go-to camera? <br/>
A. One of the names that kept coming up in my initial lens research was Minolta. They gained a reputation as innovators as they designed a lot of cameras that were firsts for a particular technical advancement that became mainstream in cameras from other manufacturers that came later. In addition, they seem to be pretty underrated as similarly specced cameras from Minolta are generally cheaper than their Canon, or Nikon counterparts. Unfortunately, they are no longer in business today as I think they’ve been folded into Sony, but all this adds up to getting a really good camera today, for not that much money. I knew that I wanted a camera with a meter and an automatic exposure mode as I was just starting out and just wanted to focus on the pictures and not have to worry about anything else yet. Minolta's X Series cameras were a perfect fit, and I was looking to get something from that lineup. I spent probably a week scouring eBay before I found a working Minolta XD11 with a 50mm f1.7 MD Rokkor-X lens that looked to be in pretty decent cosmetic condition. A few days after that, I won the auction, and it became my first camera. I used the XD11 as my go-to until after a few months, it started to have a bit of an issue where the shutter wouldn't fire when the shutter release was pressed. It was intermittent and even after tearing it down, I couldn't diagnose the problem, so I needed a new camera. I was initially going to get another XD11 as I was attached to the thing, but then as these computer-controlled cameras are 40 plus years old, nothing was stopping the new (to me) one from succumbing to the same fate, so I decided to go fully mechanical, nothing electronically controlled. This choice also made sense at this point because I was a few months in and had become way more comfortable with manually metering a scene and exposure in general, so an internal light meter was a little less important to me. At the time, I had become interested in shooting medium and large format, so I decided to look into getting a vintage press camera, something like a Graflex or a Busch. Going back to eBay, I found a Graflex Pacemaker Crown Graphic in pristine condition for not a lot of money, so I jumped on it, and that became my go-to. I enjoy using it because the rangefinder works perfectly so I don't need to focus on the ground glass, and it has a Graflok back so I can shoot any film size, up to 4x5, and even instant film, as long as I use the appropriate back for the film. I can shoot it handheld which you'd think would be difficult given its size, but nope, it's a rather handy camera. It does get quite a few looks when I whip it out to take a photo though. <br/>

Q. In the same vein, what is your dream camera? <br/>
A. I'm going to cheat a little on this question and break it down into format as I tend to shoot a lot more 120 film these days. So for 35mm, we have to go back to Minolta, and I think that my dream 35mm would be either the Leitz Minolta CL or the Minolta CLE. The CL was released about 7 years earlier than the CLE, but they were both designed to take Leica M mount lenses which are known for their sharpness and just all-round beastliness, so if I can get my hands on either one in working condition, I think I'd be good. For 120, I'd probably go with the Mamiya 7 which I think is no surprise to anyone. Super sharp interchangeable lenses, compact rangefinder body, a really quiet shutter, and it shoots 6x7 negatives, so you get ten exposures per roll of 120 which is just good economics. I think you'd be hard pressed to name a better medium format camera. For large format, Sinar would get my pick. It's not technically a camera, but a collection of various modules and parts that are all fully interchangeable with one another to build whatever camera you need for whatever type of shooting you need. It also has a pretty trick shutter and aperture system that you can control from the back of the camera which is pretty nice. Obviously, these are all rather expensive pieces of kit, but who knows, maybe one day I'll be making a post about one (or all) of these cameras on here. Fingers crossed. <br/>

Q. Why film? <br/>
A. I don't think that there is any practical reason to shoot on film these days, literally none. Modern digital cameras are faster, sharper, easier to shoot with, and with RAW formats, capture way more information and are more versatile. But once you put all that practicality aside, I think it's because of the look. Film just has a certain look to it, and it is because of this look that some photo and cinematographers say that they will never shoot with a digital camera. As with most analog formats, vinyl being another example, that look comes from the imperfections in the medium. When it comes down to it, vinyl crackle and all the other little weirdnesses were not part of the original audio when it was recorded, but it adds to the overall experience when you listen back to it. It is exactly the same for film. Film age, film speed, film color, film grain, how the film was stored, temperature of the light, developing method etc., these all affect the look of the image when it comes out. It is possible to perfectly meter a scene, but it comes out looking slightly different than what you expected because film is an organic medium and will react to way it's being exposed. In addition, vintage lenses behave much much differently from modern lenses. They might not have the same advancements as modern lenses, but they contribute to the look of film. Even today, some musicians add vinyl crackle into their music to give it a certain feel, the same way some digital photographers add these film-like imperfections back into their photos to achieve a certain look. I also enjoy the process because there is 100% a particular process to shooting on film. From choosing a film stock, to loading it into the camera, to composing, to metering, to taking the photo, to getting it developed, to getting it scanned, to finally being able to see the image, the end result of the entire process. There are certain steps that you can have a lab do for you, but I think that doing the process yourself causes a certain attachment to the images you capture, as you are part of the life of the image from start to finish. I am not one of those people who are like film is better or vice versa, I enjoy shooting on film because of the path the images take to get produced. If you enjoy shooting digitally, that is equally fine in my book, as the image is the end result, how you get there is up to you. <br/>

Q. What is your favorite film stock to shoot on? <br/>
A. Right now, for 35mm color, it's Kodak Colorplus. It's an ASA 200 consumer color film that I think produces some really nice colors. Kodak Portra 400 is also nice because it is extremely lenient with exposure and produces really pastel colors, but I definitely prefer the look and colors of Colorplus. Unfortunately, Kodak Alaris doesn't make Colorplus in 120 so I still use Portra as the go-to for all my medium format needs. For black and white on both 35mm and 120, it's Ilford Pan F Plus. It's an ASA 50 film, so it's pretty slow, but it has fine grain that produces really silky-smooth images with really nice contrast. I'm getting into nighttime photography so I'm about to try out some Cinestill 800T (color) and some Ilford Delta 3200 (black and white), so I'll keep you posted when I do. I doubt they'll become go-to film stocks as they are pretty pricey, but I'm interested to see how the images turn out. <br/>

Q. What is your favorite gear purchase of the last year? <br/>
A. So my favorite gear purchase of the last year is not a camera or even directly camera related. It's a Creality Ender 3 which is a 3D printer. I have a maker side, and a 3D printer seemed like a fun way to get into designing and making stuff around the house. The added bonus is that there are tons of photography things to print. My two latest prints were a scanning holder/mask for 4x5 negatives for my flatbed scanner and a six sheet 4x5 reel, as I currently tray process my 4x5 negatives which requires a darkroom and want to switch to using a developing tank. I'm planning a camera project in which the Ender 3 is going to play a central role. A close second would be a film daylight changing bag. Prior to getting it, I used my bathroom as a dark space to load the film into the developing tanks which was always an event because I would have to properly block all the light which took way more time and effort than it took to actually load the film. With the bag, I can load film for developing in the comfort of my living room without having to worry about light leaks, which is huge. <br/>

Q. Have you purchased any new gear in 2021? If so, what? <br/>
A. Gear Acquisition Syndrome, or GAS for short is definitely a real thing. We are not even a month in to 2021 and I have already made three purchases. The first is a sous vide cooker. I got it because I shot some color reversal (slide) film and I'm planning on developing it myself using E6 chemicals. Black and white film is fairly temperature independent and will give good results at room temperature as long as proper form is followed. C41 chemistry for color negative film requires a bit more temperature consideration, but I've been using hot water from my bathroom faucet and over the developing times required, that seems to give good results. However, E6 requires pretty length developing times and from reading the chemistry instructions, is also very temperature sensitive which means that bathroom faucet water isn't going to cut it, and that's where the sous vide cooker comes in. It should allow me to maintain the temperatures required over the time needed. When I purchased the Crown Graphic, it came with a Schneider-Kreuznach 210mm f5.6 Symmar lens which I think should be perfect for portraits. I say I think because I haven't had the chance to shoot it yet as it didn't come with a shutter. I'd been looking for a shutter this whole time but didn't find anything within my budget until a couple days ago when I lucked across an eBay listing for a working shutter designed specifically for that lens at a price that was in the middle of my budget. I had to pull the trigger. I'm currently planning a portrait shoot with my wife to test it out. My third and final purchase was a holiday gift to myself. As I mentioned earlier, I think 6x7 is the perfect negative size for 120 as it gives you ten exposures per roll which balances negative size with roll costs. But sometimes, you just want a slightly bigger negative to capture just a bit more of the scene. 6x9 is the largest standard 120 negative size, standard because there are panoramic cameras that produce 6x12 and even 6x17 negatives, but those are a wee bit too special for me right now, and you get still eight 6x9 exposures on a roll of 120 which is not totally horrible. After a bit of research, I settled on a Fujica G690BL because it seemed, by internet consensus, to be the best budget dedicated 6x9 camera. I've put two rolls of Portra 400 through it and I'm liking what I'm seeing, but we're still getting to know each other. <br/>

Q. What would you say your style is? <br/>
A. The thought of taking photos of strangers gives me an unbelievable amount of anxiety, because what if they see you and don't want a rando taking photos of them. I know that you could always ask for permission but see above for crippling anxiety when interacting with people. So at least, I know it's not street photography as of right now. I enjoy taking pictures of doors, buildings and nature because they can't get mad at you, so maybe I'm a landscape photographer? But I don't think I've been shooting long enough to have developed my own style yet. I'm definitely still experimenting and figuring it out. <br/>

Q. Do you think experience, or lack thereof affects the work a photographer produces? <br/>
A. I think this ties into the previous question as the smaller amount of experience I have is the biggest reason as to why I haven't figured out my style. At the end of the day, photography is an art form, and the way you feel about the work affects the way you produce that work. When looking at an artists' body of work, I think you can usually tell when they liked a piece they were working on, as opposed to one that they didn't as much. Creating more work initially, lets you find out what it is you like, which would make your subsequent work better as you'd be more invested in it. There's also a technical side to experience because there is gear, and techniques to using that gear that you get better at, the more experience that you have. A couple days ago, I watched a video of a photographer go out at night, realize that he forgot his light meter, eyeball his exposures and all the pictures came out looking pretty sharp. If I had been in the same boat, I may have gotten one good photo at best, with the others looking like improperly exposed messes. Experience also helps make your eye better as you'd be better able to create interesting compositions. My compositions right now are pretty simple mainly because that's how I know how to shoot. I see something interesting, I capture it, and move on to something else. A more experienced photographer will have a better understanding of how to make that subject more interesting in the same scene, just because they have a better eye. <br/>

Q. What is your favorite photo amongst those you've taken? <br/>
A. So I haven't been shooting for that long, and I think that I've only taken about 500 images which is in the neighborhood of about 15 rolls of 36 exposure 35mm, so not a lot in the grand scheme of things. That being said, it is still a lot of pictures if you look at them individually, and after going back and looking through it all, it's pretty difficult to choose. Once, I found this can of Arizona iced tea stuck in a bush, and I took a picture of it on some HP5 Plus and I think that made a cool photo; I also have this photo of a tree with really red leaves against a stark blue sky that I captured on some Fuji Superia 400, but if I had to pick based on personal connection, I think my favorite photos are the portraits that I took of my wife a couple months back. I took it on some Portra 400 using a Speed Graphic and I think they turned out really nice, but that might just be my bias towards my wife.  <br/>

Q. What are some things you wish you knew before you started taking photos? <br/>
A. It's easy to get discouraged when looking at a photo you've taken doesn't feel as great as you thought it would. It takes practice to get better at anything, and photography is no exception. Remove as many obstructions as possible between you and you being able to capture images, and don't worry if some of the images you took didn't come out perfectly, because with time, you can put in the work to make your images better. Another is to keep it simple. You don't need the most expensive camera or the most expensive gear to take good photos. Whatever you have is good enough, so use it to the best of your ability, and focus on getting the images. <br/>
